added api page for CSSNestedDeclaration and the style peroperty and a… (#36430)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/css/css_nesting/using_css_nesting/index.md

{{EmbedLiveSample('Appending_nesting_selector','100%','250')}}

## Nested declarations rule

The nested declaration rule means that the order of the rules are parsed in the order that they are written in the CSS document.

With the following CSS:

```css
.foo {
  background-color: silver;
  @media (screen) {
    color: tomato;
  }
  color: black;
}
```

The CSSOM parses the CSS in the following way.

```txt
↳ CSSStyleRule
  .style
    - background-color: silver
  ↳ CSSMediaRule
    ↳ CSSNestedDeclarations
      .style (CSSStyleDeclaration, 1) =
      - color: tomato

>   ↳ CSSNestedDeclarations

Reviewer: Is this nested?

Author: See [comment](https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36430/files#r1827533149)
All the rules before nesting or at-properties are added at the top-level CSSRules anything after nesting or at-properties are added as nested declarations as that is how the order is preserved. Before CSSNestedDeclarations rules at the same level were hoisted up to the top with other rules whcih changed the order and effected the cascade.

Reviewer: That's really useful thanks! Reading that I think it is more before and after nesting, and the at-rules is just a form of nesting right?

Anyway, if I can have this misunderstanding others can, so I have added proposals https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36430/files#r1828495475 , https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36430/files#r1828504825, https://github.com/mdn/content/pull/36430#discussion_r1828509185

    .style (CSSStyleDeclaration, 1) =
      - color: black
```

> 

Reviewer: > [!NOTE]
> Support for the rule was added with {{domxref("CSSNestedDeclarations")}}.
> Browsers that [do not support this interface](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSSNestedDeclarations#browser_compatibility) this interface may parse nested rules in the wrong order.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

> [!NOTE]
> Support for the rule was added with {{domxref("CSSNestedDeclarations")}}.
> Browsers that [do not support this interface](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSSNestedDeclarations#browser_compatibility) this interface may parse nested rules in the wrong order.

```

{{EmbedLiveSample('Appending_nesting_selector','100%','250')}}

## Nested declarations rule

> The nested declaration rule means that the order of the rules are parsed in the order that they are written in the CSS document.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nested declaration rule is that the CSS rules are parsed in the order that they are written in the CSS document.
```

With the following CSS:

```css
.foo {
  background-color: silver;
  @media (screen) {
    color: tomato;
  }
  color: black;
}
```

The CSSOM parses the CSS in the following way.

```txt
↳ CSSStyleRule
  .style
    - background-color: silver
  ↳ CSSMediaRule
    ↳ CSSNestedDeclarations
      .style (CSSStyleDeclaration, 1) =
      - color: tomato
  ↳ CSSNestedDeclarations
    .style (CSSStyleDeclaration, 1) =
      - color: black
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Note that  in order to preserve the parsing order, all the rules before nesting are handled as top-level `CSSRules`, while any top level rules after nesting are represented as `CSSNestedDeclarations`.
That's why the `color-black` is inside a nested declaration even though it is a top level declaration in the original document.

```

{{EmbedLiveSample('Appending_nesting_selector','100%','250')}}

> ## Nested declarations rule

Reviewer: My take is that this addition will date badly - in a year users will be wondering when this update was made and whether it is relevant to them. Further, as presented it won't necessarily make sense to CSS users who aren't interested in the API.

(my understanding is) 
1. The nested declaration rule is that nested declarations should be grouped and parsed in the order that they are declared relative to the peers on the parent level. 
2. Prior to this update to the CSSdom the order would be wrong if I import a stylesheet - is that right? i.e. this is an error that will happen whether I construct a stylesheet using the API or by importing the text definition?

So I think you should state the rule as it should be now, followed by your last codeblock - stating that the CSSdom for the imported document will be like this.

Then at the end have a note, with a link to CSSNestedDeclarations stating that prior to the introduction of this interface nested files were ordered in this way (your second example).

This should age better. Does that make sense?

Reviewer: @dletorey Not addressed.

In order to retain the order that the CSS is written by the author an update has been made to the [**CSS Object Model (CSSOM)**](/en-US/docs/Web/API/CSS_Object_Model). Which now means that if there is any form of nesting followed by other rules they are parsed in the correct order.

### Prior to nested declaration rule

The following CSS:

```css
.foo {
  background-color: silver;
  @media (screen) {
    color: tomato;
  }
  color: black;
}
```

Would be parsed:

```css
.foo {
  background-color: silver;
  color: black;
  @media (screen) {
    color: tomato;
  }
}
```

With the nested declaration rule the rules can nested and are all grouped together to retain the order. The following block shows how the CSSOM parses the CSS.

> ```txt

Reviewer: This block would be useful in the API section.
